------------------------------------------------------
Dinosaur Black Hole - Initial Game Narrative - 3/19/24
------------------------------------------------------
66 million years before the Industrial Revolution, the Dinosaurs
dominated the planet. In this famed era of the Cretaceous, their
beautiful skyscrapers towered into their skies, looming over
vast expanses of cityscape and flying dino-vehicles. Their
complex civilization is a result of millions of years worth of
technological advancement that dates back to the Jurassic. Yet,
modern paleontology has failed to capture the history of this
beautiful marvel of the ingenuity of life. What on earth
happened? 

Dr. Stenon may be able to help us learn the truth. As a
world-renowned physicist, Dr. Stenon gained much acclaim in her
field and was trusted to lead some of the world's most promising
research. Unfortunately, one fateful hot summer day in the year
66,345,002 B.P. would spell the end for her career... and her
world. In what is now modern-day Alaska, a gaping black hole
expanded over the vast city of Dinopolis--caused by a failed
procedure during Dr. Stenon's experiment. 

Before her very eyes, Dr. Stenon watched as her facility, her
research crew, and the building next door began to hurl towards
the sky. Within minutes, more and more of Dinopolis and its
thousands of residents were suddenly finding themselves
plummeting towards certain doom. Dr. Stenon, barely clinging to
the ground via an extra-stubborn piece of rebar, quickly formed
a plan. She climed towards her first objective: a techy gadget
known as a Gravity Reverser. With this, she could resist the
effects of the black hole's gravitational pull. She then allowed
herself to be sucked into the black hole before activating the
device. Now, she was faced with her goal: save as many residents
of Dinopolis as she can! 

To do this, Dr. Stenon must find helpless dinos then grant them
black hole resistance using the Gravity Reverser. She must then
lead them safely down to the ground and place them into a
nuclear fallout bunker. (This is the setting of the gameplay)

Dr. Stenon then began to travel the world to save as many
dinosaurs as she could. More were scattered in various nuclear
shelters. When the black hole finally vanished, the small
population of remaining dinosaurs were sadly greeted with the
loss of their cities, homes, infrastructure, and loved ones.
Those fit for surviving these post-apocalyptic conditions--the
small, the quick, and the flying--evolved to become birds we
humans know and love today. For those who were unable to sustain
a growing population with such a small size, the surviving few
lived the rest of their days crying, laughing, sharing stories
over fires, and strangely enjoying the silence of the world as
they learned to accept their imminent extinction. 


-----------------------------
More Details on Gameplay Lore
-----------------------------

The player plays as Dr. Stenon, a Stenonychosaurus (in real
science, Stenonychosaurus is a dinosaur genus hypothesized to
have the intelligence of smart animals today, like dolphins or
crows). 

During the game, Dr. Stenon is helping dinosaurs in the sky
reach the ground safely. The environment consists of references
to the city of Dinopolis. The walkable platforms in the game are
made up of rocks, dirt, steel bars, wood, cars, or other
remnants of infrastructure. 

The dinosaurs that Dr. Stenon are innocent civilians that need
saving. They are of various species--here's an example of a few:
T. Rex, Stegosaurus, Velociraptor. They might use some sort of
AI, including flocking behavior, to follow the player. 

Potential idea for AI Enemies: "corrupted" dinosaurs that creep
out of the black hole to follow and attack the player and/or the
civilian dinosaurs (Lore: Resulted from the failed science
experiment. Maybe they resemble SCP anomalies). 

As the player approaches the ground, the black hole's event
horizon becomes larger in diameter, so the player must move
quickly to outspeed it and avoid being caught inside it (Lore:
the Gravity Reverser won't have enough power to get her out
again). Requires a lot of suspense in logic, science, and common
sense. Might come up with a better explanation later. 

--------------------- NARRATIVE MODIFICATIONS 4/2/24 ---------------------

Setting Lore
---
Dr. Stenon has been renamed to Dr. Sten because it rolls of the
tongue easier.

Everyone that Dr. Sten saves is flown to a faraway planet (name TBD.
best idea so far: "Sauria") where they can rebuild society. 
Those that Dr. Sten fails to rescue will be sucked away by the black
hole, then later hail down onto Earth to become the fossils humanity
later discovers. 


Game Lore
---

The Gravity Reverser will let Dr. Sten and others survive inside the
event horizon for only a few seconds, e.g. 5 seconds.

Instead of being teleported, Dr. Sten is transported to the top of
each level via a spaceship that is piloted by her sidekick (name
TBD). 

At the end of each level, Dr. Sten and her sidekick pilot them all to
the faraway planet, before coming back for the next level. 


Ideas on how to lore drop
---
Begin the game with a cutscene, consisting of a series of images
depicting Dr. Sten's accident. Here's a rough outline of the
procession of events:
- zoomed out overview of dinopolis. shiny and pretty 
- zoom in view of happy dinosaurs living their lives in streets and
flying cars
- zoom in on dr. sten's research facility
- view of dr. sten and her crew doing sciencey stuff
- explosion of some sort
- sky turns grey
- horrified looks in faces of scientists and civilians
- black hole opens up
- buildings start to tear apart
- dinosaurs start to fly into the sky
- dr. sten grabs exposed rebar to prevent being sucked away
- dr. sten crawls to a location where sciency gadgets are stored
- reveal of gravity reverser
- dr. sten uses the reverser on herself
- finds one of her crew members (future sidekick) and uses the
reverser on them
- they find a rocket inside the crumbling facility
- they power it on and blast off
- they are shown flying towards the black hole

Title menu ideas:
- dr. sten and the dinos she is rescuing trailing behind her, all
have fearful expressions, and above them is the black hole
- dr. sten, sidekick, and rescued dinos flying away from the black
hole
I think I like the first idea better

Between levels, there is dialogue between Dr. Sten and her sidekick.
There they can try to unravel the cause of the explosion, and ponder
the future of dinosaurs (and the meaning of life, or something like
that), 
whle forming a bond. Perhaps some of the rescued dinosaurs also have
dialogue, and they share how they feel about the situation. 
Before each level begins, there can be some expositionary dialogue
from her sidekick that tells Dr. Sten what to expect, (new platform
types or game mechanics) 
as well as lore about the city they're visiting. Perhaps lore about
how each city is being affected by the black hole. 

Next goal: decide on city names, then develop basic lore about each
one. It might be fun to make reference to the modern-day cities they
are named after. e.g. 
an egypt-themed city might have a dinosaur version of the Great
Pyramids of Giza (maybe they are spikes on the back of a giant
Stegosaurus statue)

What happens at the end of the game? 
Idea: The black hole envelops the entire world, and Dr. Sten and crew
must stay on their planet. Eventually the black hole dissipates but 
the dinosaurs are still recovering. Soon the mammals take over Earth, 
and the dinosaurs are forced to stay on their planet. 



